### Executive Summary 
In this unit of IT1025 its supposed to give you more of an understanding about IT. we will talk about data,information and knowledge. We will aslo get to learn about ethical and legal implications.
### Data, Information and Knowledge
#### Relational Data
Data are raw facts and they may be devoid of context or intent. Knowledge is human beliefs or perceptions about relationships among facts or concepts relevant to that area. Information is processed data that possess context, relevance, and purpose. Information involves the manipulation of the raw data to get an indication of magnitude, trends, in patterns in the data.  Knowledge can be viewed as information that facilitates action. Once the data is analyzed you can make the consumption that information produces knowledge. You can later use that knowledge to make decisions. The explantion of the customer and orders as a database for a small company is. You would make a data sheet that would show all the customers of the company and the list of each of the customers orders from the company. The primary key would be the customers ID number. The table would be related by the orders matching with the right customer. The foreign key in the table would be the link between the customer name and customer ID. The data type tells the database what functions can be performed with the data.
#### Big Data
The four Vs are volume , variety, velocity, variability. Volume means how big the data is in size. Variety relates to the heterogeneous sources and the nature of data both structured and unstructured. Velocity means the speed of generation of data. Variability  defines to the inconsistency which can be shown by the data at times. Thye different technologies that driven the need foremmore data is serach engines ,social media apps, and machines that use a big comupter for example an airplane can generate 10+ terabytes of new data in 30 minutes.
### Structured Query Data
RDBMS is a database management system. And SQL is the language used for communicating with data in an RDBMS. the purpose of SQL is that it is a  programming language designed to handle data in a relational database management system. The order and the customer ID are realted by the the orders matching with the right customer id to show what that customer had ordered. The primary key is the customer ID and the foreign key is the order tab. A hacker might get access to user names and passwords in a database by simply inserting " OR ""=" into the user name or password text box. SQL injection are a threat beacuse its the most common hacking technique. A hacker might get access to all the user names and passwords in a database, by simply inserting 105 OR 1=1 into the input field. A hacker can also   get access to user names and passwords in a database by simply inserting " OR ""=" into the user name or password text box. There are many techniques that hackers might useSQL to get a hold of your data. to protect your webiste from SQL injections you have to use SQL parameters. The SQL engine checks each parameter to ensure that it is correct for its column and are treated correctly and not as part of the SQL to be executed. 
### Ethical And Legal Implications 
#### Code Of Ethics
A code of ethics is a document that outlines a set of acceptable behaviors for a professional or social group. The ACM made the computing code so it can make ethical decisions. AUP tells you what you can do and can't do while using someones organization services. Code of ethics is a document that outlines a set of acceptable behaviors for a professional or social group.
#### Intellectual property 
WIPO purpose is to to lead the development of a balanced and effective international IP system that enables innovation and creativity for the benefit of all. WIPO is there to help governments, businesses and society realize the benefits of IP. Copyright exits when you first create your work. You only need to register your work if you want to bring a lawsuit for infringement of a U.S. work. Registering your work can give you confidence that no one can steal it and use it as there own. It's important for you to register your SVG image if you don't want anyone to steal your work. For example someone can take your image and sell it to people as if it was theres and they would make money off of it while you make nothing. If you have it registered you can take them to court for infringement and take all the money that they made of the SVG image. Having your work trademarked can give you the recogintion and financial benefit. The trademark also helps people know who owns the work and that they have to ask the person if they would like to use there work.
#### Information Collection 
COPPA is a federal law that restrict's collection of online data from people under the age of 13. FERPPA prevents data sharing of the students health and behavior record to anyone besides the student and there parents. HIPPA give the rights to share the students information to there parents and they also govern how the  school health services share the students data.
### Conclusion
In this unit of IT1025 we leanred about relational data and big data. We learned about structured query data and examples of it. We know know the different netween code of ethics and SQU. we learnd about IP and trademarks. We leanred about SQL statements and we made an example of one.
